# Original recipe from https://www.mydarlingvegan.com/beer-battered-vegan-fish-sticks/

Background:
These Beer Battered Vegan Fish Sticks are made using heart of palm and seaweed to attempt
both the taste and texture that I have been seeking. If you are unfamiliar with heart of palm,
it is a tender and delicate vegetable harvested from the inner core of certain palm trees.

Ingredients:
Fish Sticks
1 can heart of palm, drained and broken into large pieces
1/4 cup panko bread crumbs
1 tablespoon crumbled roasted seaweed
1 teaspoon vegan Worcestershire sauce
salt and pepper, to taste

Beer Batter
2 tablespoon chickpea flour
1/4 cup water
1 cup all purpose flour
1 tablespoon garlic powder
1 tablespoon paprika
2 teaspoons salt
1 teaspoon pepper
1 1/4-1 1/2 cup dark beer
about 2 cups cooking oil

Tartar Sauce
1/2 cup vegan mayonnaise
1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice
1 heaping teaspoon sweet pickle relish
1 teaspoon prepared horseradish
salt and pepper, to taste

Instructions:
1. Combine the ingredients for the tartar sauce and refrigerate until ready to use.
2. In a food processor combine ingredients for fish sticks.
	Pulse a few times until ingredients are broken down and well combined.
	There should still be large chunks.

3. Shape the heart of palm mixture into 8-10 fish sticks and place on a parchment-lined
	baking sheet, squeezing out excess water.
	Refrigerate for 1 hour.

4. To make the beer batter, combine the chickpea flour with water until thick and goopy.
	Set aside. In a separate bowl combine flour and spices.
	Mix in chickpea egg.
	Slowly add beer, about 1/4 cup at a time, while mixing.
	The batter should be fairly thick but thin enough to evenly coat fish sticks.
	If your fish sticks are falling apart in the batter, thin it with a little more beer.

5. Heat oil in a small cast-iron skillet, filling enough so that it's about 1" deep.

6. Once the oil is hot, coat the fish sticks in the batter 2-3 at a time.
	With a flat utensil, gently place in hot oil and deep fry for about 2 minutes,
	flipping halfway in between if necessary.

7. Remove from oil and place on a paper towel to absorb any excess oil.

8. Serve immediately with prepared tartar sauce.
