# Original recipe from https://smittenkitchen.com/2019/10/chickpea-and-kale-shakshuka/

Background:
Shakshuka, if you’re unfamiliar with it, is a North African dish, largely Tunisian, of eggs baked in a
spicy tomato sauce. It’s also one of the most beloved recipes in the Smitten Kitchen archives,
right up there with broccoli slaw and my mom’s apple cake, and for good reason: it’s about the
highest calling of eggs-for-dinner I’ve found, and I think we know how hard I’ve studied this
category. This recipe takes it a step further into the realm of a stew, with chickpeas and kale, and
it comes from a wonderful book out this past spring, Family, by Hetty McKinnon.

Ingredients:
Olive oil (at least a glug)
1 medium yellow onion, finely chopped
2 garlic cloves, finely minced
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon ground coriander
1/2 a jalapeño pepper, de-seeded and finely chopped
Kosher salt and black pepper
2 15-ounce cans cooked chickpeas, drained and rinsed (about 3 1/2 cups)
15-ounce can crushed tomatoes (1 3/4 cups)
1/2 cup (125ml) vegetable broth or stock
4 ounces kale, stems removed (I use a package from the salad greens section)
1 cup (150 grams) feta, crumbled
4 to 6 large eggs (shown with 6)
1 tablespoon za’atar
Handful of mint leaves, chopped
Toasted pita wedges, to serve (optional)
Dollops of plain Greek yogurt, to serve (optional)

Instructions:
1. In a large, deep frying pan or low Dutch oven* casserole dish, heat a glug (1 to 2 tablespoons)
	olive oil over medium heat and, once hot, add the onion, garlic, spices, and jalapeño and cook
	for 4 to 5 minutes, until translucent.

2. Add the tomatoes, stock, and chickpeas plus 1 teaspoon
	kosher salt and several grinds of black pepper and stir to combine, bringing the mixture to a
	simmer, lowering the heat if necessary to keep it from bubbling too hard.

3. Cover with a lid and cook for 5 to 7 minutes, until the sauce has thickened slightly.

4. Add kale and cover again, cooking until the greens have wilted, 2 to 4 minutes.
	Adjust seasoning if needed.

5. Make wells for eggs and break an egg into each. Sprinkle eggs with additional salt and pepper,
	and the whole dish with feta. Cover and simmer for 6 to 10 minutes, until the whites are set but
	the yolks are runny.**

6. To serve, drizzle with olive oil, sprinkle with za’atar and mint, and serve with pita wedges and
	plain yogurt, if you wish.

** The trickiest part of any baked egg dish is getting the eggs exactly right,
	neither undercooked or hard-boiled. I vote for checking them as often as needed and rotating
	the pan as needed to avoid a hot spot ruining a single egg. Most importantly, ask yourself:
	Am I eating this the second it comes off the stove or 10 or even 20 minutes later?
	If so, you can take them off ever-so-slightly wiggly in the whites because they’ll continue to
	set as the pan rests.
