# Original recipe from https://thewoksoflife.com/ma-po-tofu-real-deal/

Background:
Mapo Tofu is a popular Chinese dish from Sichuan Province, where spicy food is king and the
signature spice of the region––the Sichuan Peppercorn––gives dishes a unique “numbing” effect.
It’s almost like the Sichuan peppercorns are there to not only add their fragrance and flavor, but
also to numb your tongue so it can take more heat!

The name of the dish roughly translates to “pockmarked grandma’s tofu.” Whatever its origins,
mapo tofu has made it out of Sichuan Province and spread around the world. The dish has taken on
many forms as restaurants and takeout joints have put their own spin on it, often lessening spice
levels, adding different vegetables, and transforming the dish into something else entirely!

Traditional and authentic Sichuan mapo tofu is what we’re going for in this recipe. The spicy sauce
coats the soft cubes of silken tofu, tasty bits of ground pork, scallion, and Sichuan (or Szechuan)
peppercorns.

Ingredients:
6 tbsp. sesame or canola oil (divided, 4/2)
1-2 fresh Thai bird (Serrano, or spiciest available) chili peppers (thinly sliced)
6-8 dried red chilies (roughly chopped)
2 1/4 tablespoons Sichuan peppercorns (ground and divided, 2--1/4)
3 tablespoons ginger (finely minced)
3 tablespoons garlic (finely minced)
2-3 handfuls of diced veggies -- mushrooms, broccoli, carrots, potatoes, etc.
2 tablespoons spicy bean sauce (depending on your desired salt/spice levels)
1 cup no-chicken (or other veggie) broth
1 pound silken tofu (450g, cut into 1 inch cubes)
2 teaspoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon sesame oil (optional)
1/4 teaspoon sugar (optional)
1 scallion (finely chopped)

Instructions:
1. First, we toast the chilies. If you have homemade toasted chili oil, you can skip this step.
	Heat your wok or a small saucepan over low heat. Add 2 tbsps of the oil and throw in the
	fresh and dried peppers. Stir occasionally and heat until fragrant, about 5 minutes, ensuring
	that the peppers don’t burn. Remove from heat and set aside.

2. Heat the remaining ¼ cup of oil in your wok over medium heat. Add 2 tbsp of your ground Sichuan
	peppercorns and stir occasionally for 30 seconds. Add the ginger. After 1 minute, add the garlic.
	Fry for another minute, and then turn up the heat to high and add the ground pork.
	Add chopped vegetables and cook for 2-3 minutes.

3. Add the spicy bean sauce to the mixture and stir it in well.
	Add broth to the wok and stir. Let this simmer for a minute.
	While that's happening, ready your tofu and also put a ¼ cup of water in a small bowl with
	your cornstarch and mix until thoroughly combined.

4. Add the cornstarch mixture to your sauce and stir. Let it bubble away until the sauce starts
	to thicken. (If it gets too thick, splash in a little more water or chicken stock.)
	Then add your chili oil from before—peppers and all! Stir the oil into the sauce, and add the tofu.
	Use your spatula to gently toss the tofu in the sauce. Let everything cook for 3-5 minutes.
	Add the sesame oil and sugar (if using) along with the scallions and stir until the scallions are
	just wilted.

5. Garnish with a last sprinkle of 1/4 teaspoon Sichuan peppercorn.
