# Original recipe from https://smittenkitchen.com/2009/01/squash-and-chickpea-moroccan-stew/

Background:
So, about those preserved lemons: This isn’t the first Moroccan dish I’ve made, but I’ve always been
on the fence about the inclusion of preserved lemons. What if I searched all over town for them and
ended up dropping $10 on something I hated. Would I like salt-pickled lemons? This time, I took
the plunge (found them at Garden of Eden, for you New Yorkers, gourmet/specialty shops for
everyone else or you can try Elise’s homemade recipe) and well: I think they’re an acquired taste
that I haven’t acquired yet, but hope to. Yet they were wonderfully fragrant in the dish and if you’re
looking to try out something new, or if you’re already smitten with them, go for it.

To veganize this, replace the butter with additional olive oil,
use vegetable broth and skip the yogurt.

Serves 6 to 8

Ingredients:
1 tablespoon unsalted butter
1 tablespoon olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, small dice
4 medium cloves garlic, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons ground cumin
1 (3-inch) cinnamon stick
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
1 pound butternut squash, large dice
3/4 pound red potatoes, large dice
2 cups low-sodium chicken or vegetable broth
2 cups cooked chickpeas, drained
1 (14-ounce) can diced tomatoes, with juices
Pinch saffron threads (optional)
1/2 preserved lemon, finely chopped
1 cup brined green olives (Aida recommended Cerignola)
Steamed couscous, for serving (directions here and elsewhere on the web)
Fresh cilantro leaves, roughly chopped, for garnish
Toasted slivered almonds, for garnish
Plain yogurt, for garnish
Hot sauce of your choice (for serving)

Instructions:
1. Heat butter and olive oil in a 3- to 4-quart Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed saucepan with
	a tight fitting lid over medium heat. When oil shimmers, add onion, garlic, cumin, and cinnamon,
	and season with salt and freshly ground black pepper.

2. Cook, stirring occasionally, until spices are aromatic and onions are soft and translucent,
	about 5 minutes.

3. Add squash and potatoes, season with salt and freshly ground black pepper, stir to coat, and
	cook until just tender, about 3 minutes. Add broth, chickpeas, tomatoes and their juices, and
	saffron, if using. Bring mixture to a boil then reduce heat to low. Cover and simmer until squash
	is fork tender, about 10 minutes.

4. Remove from heat and stir in preserved lemon and olives.

5. Serve over couscous garnished with cilantro, almonds, and yogurt.
