# Original recipe from https://cookieandkate.com/best-tabbouleh-recipe/

Background:
Tabbouleh (also spelled tabouli) is a super fresh herb and bulgur salad,
with parsley being the number one ingredient. It’s dotted with diced cucumber and tomato,
and dressed simply with olive oil and lemon juice.
It’s refreshing, light and packed with healthy ingredients.

Ingredients:
½ cup bulgur
1 cup diced cucumber (1 small-to-medium)
1 cup diced tomato* (1 large)
1 teaspoon fine sea salt, divided
3 medium bunches curly parsley
⅓ cup (⅔ ounce) chopped fresh mint (optional but recommended—you can chop it in the food processor with the parsley)
⅓ cup thinly sliced green onion
⅓ cup extra-virgin olive oil
3 to 4 tablespoons lemon juice, to taste
1 medium clove garlic, pressed or minced

1. Cook or soak the bulgur until tender according to package directions.
	Drain off any excess water, and set aside to cool.

2. Meanwhile, combine the diced cucumber and tomato in a medium bowl
	with ½ teaspoon of the salt. Stir, and let the mixture rest for at least 10 minutes,
	or until you’re ready to mix the salad.

3. To prepare the parsley, cut off the thick stems. Then, finely chop the parsley
	and remaining stems—you can do this by hand, but it’s much easier in a food processor
	with the standard “S” blade.
	Process 1 bunch at a time (it should yield about 1 cup chopped), transferring
	the chopped parsley to a large serving bowl before proceeding with the next.

4. Add the cooled bulgur, chopped fresh mint (if using) and green onion to the bowl of parsley.
	Strain off and discard the cucumber and tomato juice that has accumulated
	in the bottom of the bowl (this ensures that your tabbouleh isn’t too watery).
	Add the strained cucumber and tomato to the bowl.

5. In a small measuring cup or bowl, whisk together
	the olive oil,
	3 tablespoons lemon juice,
	garlic,
	and remaining ½ teaspoon salt.
	Pour it into the salad and stir to combine.
	Taste, and adjust if necessary—add another tablespoon of lemon juice
	for zing, or salt for more overall flavor.

6. If you have the time, let the salad rest for 15 minutes before serving to let the flavors mingle.
	Otherwise, you can serve it immediately or chill it for later.
	Tabbouleh will keep well in the refrigerator, covered, for up to 4 days.
