# Original recipe from https://www.thecuriouschickpea.com/vegan-masala-curry-mac-and-cheese/

Background:
We start with a typical creamy curry base, add some vegan cheddar cheese and pasta and BAM!
You’ve got yourself the most mouth watering masala mac there is.
There are a lot of ways you could go about making curry mac and cheese. It could be a cheesy affair
with some added curry spices. You could even take a more whole foods approach
(like those vegan macs made from potato and carrot) and add some curry powder.
But what’s the need for those when Indian cuisine itself has the most luscious, velvety sauces that
are rich in flavor and texture. With the right balance of flavors, adding vegan cheddar builds on
those rich savory notes, enhancing the entire dish.

Ingredients:
16oz pasta, such as fusilli, gluten free optional
1 tsp oil
1 yellow onion, diced
4 cloves garlic, minced
2 tsp curry powder
1/2 tsp cayenne pepper, more or less to taste
1/2 tsp salt
2 tbsp tapioca starch
15oz can tomatoes, diced or whole
15oz can coconut milk (full fat)
1/2 medium head cauliflower, cut into florets
8oz vegan cheddar shreds or slices
1 cup frozen green peas
cilantro for garnish (optional)

Instructions:
1. Cook pasta in salted water according to package directions,
	until it is 1-2 minutes away from being done.
	Drain and set aside.

2. Meanwhile, in a large pot heat 1 teaspoon of oil over medium heat.
	Add the onion and garlic and sauté until soft, about 5-7 minutes.

3. Add the curry powder, cayenne, salt, and tapioca starch and stir to coat the onion.
	Let cook about 30-60 seconds.

4. Pour in the tomatoes and coconut milk. Breaking apart the tomatoes if whole with the spatula.
	Add the cauliflower and vegan cheddar. Bring to a simmer, then lower the heat to medium low.
		Let simmer for about 15 minutes or until cauliflower is soft.

5. Blend the sauce with an immersion blender or upright blender (for a smoother sauce), be careful
	as the sauce is very hot.
	Return to the pot and add the green peas.

6. Add the pasta to the sauce and turn the heat on low. Cook for 1-2 minutes or until the pasta is
	perfectly cooked and the sauce has thickened around the noodles.
	Enjoy hot, garnish with cilantro if desired.

**I don't give an exact amount of cauliflower because the recipe is flexible.
You should expect about 3-4 cups of cauliflower florets.
